Settings, Control Panel, and the Registry.
From a historical perspective,
I don't know how long you've been with the Microsoft Windows operating system,
but there was a time not too long ago where Windows settings,
that is user settings,
computer settings were stored not in a centralized database,
but in a series of text files.
You're seeing in this screenshot the Sysedit tool from Windows 95.
Around that time, Windows 95, Windows 98,
Microsoft finally started extricating itself fully
from storing settings in those.
ini text files.
Basically,
it's kind of a cumbersome way to keep track of user and computer settings.
Now that having been said, if you use Linux or UNIX,
those old operating systems, well UNIX is old,
Linux isn't as old, they still habitually will store settings,
application settings, user, computer settings,
and text files, but in Windows land, we have the Registry.
Now that having been said,
some applications even now in 2017 will still use configuration files.
Largely, it's up to the developer.
Microsoft strongly prefers us to use the Registry.
Now I mentioned Registry but didn't formally define it.
The Registry is in fact,
a hierarchical database consists of a number of binary files,
and by binary,
I mean that you can't open these files in a text editor and see their contents.
Those old ini files that I mentioned, yes, those were human editable.
With the Registry,
you need to tap into those binary files by using the Registry editor,
this is Regedit.
exe.
Now historically, there has been a lot of fear among computer users,
end users,
and even power users about making a mistake in the
Registry editor and hosing up your system.
The reason for that is that Registry editor
historically has not had an undo capability.
That having been said, you can, in fact, back up parts or the entire registry.
I'll do that for you in the demo as a matter of fact.
The bottom line is, even though we have easier ways to configure a system,
namely Control Panel and preferences,
sometimes you do have to go down to the level of the Registry to view data,
modify data,
sometimes even create new settings or delete
settings directly from the Registry.
As far as vocabulary is concerned,
the top level of the hierarchy consists of a number of
handle keys or HKey virtual folders.
The technical name for these is subtree.
There is really only two divisions of the tree,
there is Hkey, local machine for all computer related settings,
settings that are irrespective of the user logged on,
and HKey users which covers all of the user profiles on that machine.
I hope that you're following these modules
sequentially because in the previous module,
we learned about user profiles.
Within a subtree, you have a number of what look like folders,
but are technically called keys and subkeys.
Remember,
you're dealing with binary data that's stored in a number of files
throughout the file system of your computer.
Ultimately, you get down to the value level.
As you see here,
we're looking at the path
HKey_LocalMachineSystem\CurrentControlSet\ControlHiveList and this actual
subkey gives you a list of values that correspond to each hive or physical registry
file on the system.
And it's beyond our scope to get really deep into what each
of these files means and what it does,
but the bottom line is your Registry values all have an associated data type,
some might allow you to specify 0 and 1 to denote false and true values,
some allow you to specify string data and actually put a path
there like you see in many of these values,
and then the value data represents the actual
content that's stored for each value.
Now Group Policy is a term that you may or may not be familiar with.
Group Policy provides a centralized way to control
Registry settings on a system.
In an Active Directory domain, a business network,
Group Policy is typically used to standardize the user's
desktop environment and also quite honestly,
to put potentially harmful controls out of the reach of the end user.
This is the local Group Policy editor.
Again, it's way beyond our scope to get deeper into Group Policy.
All I want you to know at this level is that when faced with the
issue how do I modify Registry settings for a number of
computers instead of just one at a time, Group Policy is going to be your tool for doing that.